+++
title = 'APS106'
date = 2024-07-03T18:36:41-06:00
draft = false
+++

# Fundamentals of Computer Programming

## Notes
[Textbook Notes](/files/firstyear/aps106.pdf)

## Course Description

[APS106: Fundamentals of Computer Programming](https://engineering.calendar.utoronto.ca/course/aps106h1) is a course taken by most first-year undergraduates at the University of Toronto's Faculty of Applied Science and Engineering. The disciplines that take this course are: Mech, Indy, Chem, Civ, Min, and MSE. According to the Academic Calendar, this course teaches basic concepts in software systems and algorithms, and utilizes the Python language.

I took this course in Winter 2024, and ended the course with an A+. While I enjoyed the labs and design problem lectures, I found the content of this course to be very limiting and slow-paced. I will also say that with moderate effort, a person with zero prior programming experience can excel in this course. Another note I would like to add is that I took this course in the winter semester because I was an industrial engineering student at the time; I took APS105 in the summer, as part of my transfer to ECE.

**This notes package is in no way a complete representation of the course.** That being said, I wrote these notes every Sunday, covering the next week in advance. I came back to them while preparing for my final exam to go over topics I felt weak in. 

This cover page was written in LaTeX, the notes themselves were written in Notion. If you find any errors, or just want to provide feedback, feel free to reach out to [arnav.patil@mail.utoronto.ca](mailto:arnav.patil@mail.utoronto.ca)!
