+++
title = 'ECE244 YouTube Lecture Notes'
date = 2024-07-03T18:36:41-06:00
draft = false
mathjax = true
+++

# YouTube Lecture Notes

# Lecture 01

Course introduction lecture, how the course works, grading scheme, etc.

# Lecture 02

## Introduction to C++

Computer broken into software and hardware

### Software

There are applications such as chrome, safari, and others, including our C++ program. These applications work within the operating system, which is the software that interacts with the hardware and prevents damage being done to the hardware.

### Hardware

Mainly, there is the central processing unit (CPU), which has two components, the arithmetic logical unit (ALU) and the control unit (CU). The CPU communicates with the main memory to perform tasks and has the job of executing instructions passed to it, procedurally. 

## Structure of a C++ Program

```cpp
#include <iostream> 
// standard C++ library
using namespace std;
int main(void) {
	cout << "Hello World!" << endl; // endl
	// if not using namespace, write "std::cout" and "std::endl"
	return 0;
}
```

Input from the user uses `cin >> value` .

## Data Types

### Integers

| int | short | long | long long |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 32 bits | 16 bits | 32 bits | 64 bits |

### Real Numbers

| float | double | long double |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 7 digits | 15 digits | 19 digits |

Characters and booleans same as in C. Strings in C are arrays of characters, but work a little differently in C++.

- Need library `<string>`
- +,==,≠ operations all work on strings

# Lecture 03

## Functions

Function building same as what we have in C. In C++, pass-by-reference syntax that allows us to access the original variable without using pointers → swap function in C++

```cpp
void swap(int &x, int &y) {
	int temp = x;
	x = y;
	y = temp;
	return;
}
```

## Program Organization

One method is to store everything in a single code file — `main.cpp`. The `g++` compiler turns everything into machine code — an executable file.

# Lecture 04

A reference is an alternate name/alias to another variable.

1. Reference variables cannot be reassigned,
2. Must be initialized at the same time as declaration, and
3. Reference doesn’t have separate memory location.

```cpp
int a = 7, b = 12;
int &ra = a;
count << a << endl; // would print 7
ra = b; // same as b
```

## Program Organization

Can also have multiple file programs: `main.cpp` which contains the main function, and `functions.cpp` which contains the functions used in main.

### Source Files

```cpp
// main.cpp
#include "print.h"
#include "input.h"
int main(void) {
	int num;
	num = userInputNum();
	printNum(num);
	return 0;
}
```

```cpp
// print.cpp
void printNum(int num) {
	cout << num << endl;
	return;
}
```

```cpp
// input.cpp
int userInputNum(void) {
	int x;
	count << "Enter an integer: ";
	cin >> x;
	return x;
}
```

### Header Functions

```cpp
// print.h
void printNum(int x);
```

```cpp
// input.h
 int inputUserNum(void);
```

There’s two ways to get an executable file from a multiple file program:

1. `g++ main.cpp input.cpp print.cpp -o main` 
    1. This directly compiles into a .exe file which we can execute to run the program
2. `g++ -c [name].cpp` for each .cpp program then `g++ main.o print.o input.o -o main`
    1. First command takes each .cpp file and goes to preprocessing, turning it into compiler object files.
    2. Second command takes the .o files and turns them into a single `main.exe` executable file.
    3. This process is called linking

Linking is faster than the compiling process in how the compiler operates, and also because it allows development to be modular — only need to recompile one particular function that gets edited, for example.

# Lecture 05

To prevent errors from occurring in `#include` statements, we use header guards. These prevent the preprocessor from including a header file several times.

```cpp
#ifndef A_H
//macro
#define
struct A {
};
#endif
```

# Lecture 06

## Input/Output in C++

1. Standard I/O — `#include <iostream>` & maybe `using namespace std;`
2. File I/O — `#include <fstream>` includes input & output file stream

```cpp
int main(void) {
	ofstream outFile("myfile.txt"); // ofstream is a structure and outFile
	string text = "We are engineers!";
	outFile << text << endl;
	outFile.close(); // flushes from buffer into the file and then closes it
	return 0;
}
```

## Input From a File

```cpp
#include <fstream>
using namespace std;
int main(void) {
	ifstream inputFile("myfile.txt"); // raises error if the file doesn't exist
}
```

## Buffering

When we say `outFile << text` or `inputFile >> text` nothing actually gets saved into the file until we say `file.close()` . 

# Lecture 07

## Handling I/O Errors

Input streams are also stored in a buffer. There is also a keyboard buffer (?)

The `cin` command ignores all whitespaces and delimiters, which are spaces and newlines that we use to separate values that we’re scanning into the program. For example,

```cpp
int x,y;
cin >> x >> y;
```

If we input `13.7` then the program will store `x = 13` and will fail to read into `y`. The buffer will remain unaffected, and a failure flag, `cin.fail()` will be raised.

### File Stream

```cpp
#include <fstream>
using namespace std;
int main(void) {
	ifstream inFile("myfile.txt");
	int a, b;
	inFile >> a >> b;
	return 0;
}
```

### Standard Input

```cpp
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;
int main(void) {
	int x;
	cin >> x;
	return 0;
}
```

Possible Errors?

1. File for the input stream doesn’t exist in the directory: `inFile.fail()` ,
2. `cin` / `inFile` reads unexpected input: `inFile.fail()` or `cin.fail()` ,
3. Reach the end of the file: `inFile.eof()` ,

## Detect and Handle Input File Doesn’t Exist

```cpp
ifstream inFile("myfile.txt");
if (inFile.fail()) {
	cerr << "File doesn't exist!";
	return -1;
}
```

## Unexpected Input Raising `cin.fail()`  or `inFile.fail()`

1. `cin.clear()` clears the failure condition by setting fail flag or end-of-file flag to false
2. `cin.ignore(int n, char ch);` discards $n$ characters, or discards up to and including character `ch` , whichever **comes first.**  

### Code Example From Class

```cpp
int main(void) {
	int num;
	cout << "Enter a num: ";
	cin >> num;
	while (cin.fail()) {
		cout << "Try again: ";
		cin >> num;
	}
	cout << num;
	return 0;
}
```
